# Build 1.2.9

## UX/UI Improvements
- Added support for setting failover transports to the backend Mail Settings page.

## DX Improvements
- `config:clear` command now warns users that caching configuration files is not currently supported in Winter CMS.
- Improved `create:command` scaffolder to allow for hyphens in generated command names and added optional `--description` option to set the help text for the generated command.
- Enhanced `winter:util compile` to download FontAwesome assets required to compile backend LESS files if not present.
- Added the Form's id attribute to the forms generated by the default FormController views.
- Registered the `Illuminate\Contracts\Auth\Access\Gate` contract with the application as a null gate to prevent plugins and IDE extensions that expect the contract to be present from throwing unhelpful errors.
- Exceptions passed to the `Backend\Traits\ErrorMaker` trait are now logged in the backend error log (excluding `ApplicationException`s).

## API Changes
- Added `iconClass` option for the `fileupload` FormWidget to specify the icon that should be used for the upload button.
- Added `search` widget configuration options to the RelationController's `view` & `manage` mode configuration (`prompt`, `mode`, `scope`, `searchOnEnter`).

## Bug Fixes
- Improved compatiblity of Winter's `ConfigRepository` with Laravel by aliasing top level config keys (currently prefixed with `*::` to reflect the namespaced config system used in Winter) to their naked versions (i.e. `debugbar` is still internally stored as `*::debugbar` but will also be accessible from the `getItems()` and `all()` methods on the `ConfigRepository` as `debugbar`). This paves the way for support for Laravel Nightwatch which relies on directly accessing the underlying config data structure for performance reasons.
- Improved handling of package names as input to the `vite:compile` and `vite:watch` commands.
- Fixed issue where `winter:util purge uploads` could sometimes delete files that were actually in use.
- Improved vite base path generation to fix importing fonts.
- Improved error handling when using the default FormController views.
- Improved handling of form data in `Snowboard.request()` to skip `null` or `undefined` values.
- Removed the registration of the non-existant `Backend\FormWidgets\TimePicker` FormWidget.
- Updated `bootstrap/autoload.php` to return a 500 header when the vendor files are not present.
- Fixed issue with the `DataTable` widget not being able to actually save data.
- Fixed Preview labeling on the fancy toolbar for the default FormController view.

## Security Improvements
- Ignored `vendor` & `node_modules` in the default `.gitignore` to ensure that those directories are ignored at every level of the project, not just at the project root.

## Community Improvements
- Published first party plugin [Winter.LaravelBoost](https://github.com/wintercms/wn-laravelboost-plugin) to add support for [Laravel Boost](https://github.com/laravel/boost) in Winter v1.3.
- Published first party plugin [Winter.LaravelNightwatch](https://github.com/wintercms/wn-laravelnightwatch-plugin) to add support for [Laravel Nightwatch](https://nightwatch.laravel.com) in Winter v1.3.
- Published an official first-party Docker image for Winter CMS: https://github.com/wintercms/docker.

## Dependencies
- Improved support for PHP 8.4.
